Hello again I hope you were able to successfully refactor your character count app to use SPG in this
video.
I'll walk you through some potential solutions.
First a create a solution that doesn't involve text elements then other or some text elements into the
mix.
Before we get into the javascript Lets first make some small tweaks to the HMO and see SS in my HMO.
I'll need to change the element with an idea of letters from a div to an SVGA element.
I'll throw in the version based profile in SML namespace attributes but otherwise won't do much to the
SPG.
Next I can make some slight modifications to the CSSA file for one.
I'll set the SPG with my javascript so I can remove this with the property next.
Since the elements with a class of letter will now be SVGA rectangles I can remove most of these properties.
The only thing I care about is the color which should now be the value of the cell property not the
background color property.
I'll also update the styling for my new class since I won't use text labels to start.
For now I'll indicate a character is new just by updating the Thill on Iraq element cool.
Now let's hop into the app J.S. first of the site on a width and height.
I'll also have some bar padding now that I have a within height.
Let me set these attributes on the SPG and store the selection in a variable next.
Let's hop into the eventless nerve for the form submission.
This shouldn't look that different from before.
One thing I'll do differently though is store the result of my get frequency's function call inside
of a variable.
That way I can use the same pattern we saw in the D-3 and SVGA video to calculate the bar with.
Based on the number of rectangles I'm trying to draw along with the bar padding.
Also since I've already stored my D-3 SPG selection as a variable I can replace my D-3 select call with
that variable OK great.
We're almost done with the basic functionality.
We don't need to change the exit selection for the enter selection.
We just need to change what we're appending from a div to erect element.
Now all that's left is to change what we do with the merged selection.
Since I'm not working with divs anymore some of the attributes I want to update will be different.
Let me start with the with this attribute.
I want to keep but its value should now be equal to the bar which I calculated above.
I also still need a height attribute.
I'll just leave this as is though I'll remove the unitive pixels setting if it's tight could be problematic
if we enter a string which has a really high frequency count for a particular character.
But given what we know so far about D-3 I don't think it's worth trying to account for this potential
issue.
Setting enter text on a rectangle doesn't make sense so we can remove these lines.
We can also remove the line height in the margin right.
Instead we'll need to set x and y attributes on our rectangles.
The value for our X attribute should look the same as in the D-3 and SPG that each x coordinate should
be offset by another multiple of the bar with plus the bar padding.
As for the y coordinate it should just equal the SPG height minus the height of the bar.
In other words it should equal the SPG height minus the dot count times 20.
Let's save everything and refresh the page when I enter a phrase.
I see the bars showing up when I enter another phrase the bards get updated.
Now let's briefly tackle the bonus.
There are several ways to do this but it's a little tricky because for each data point you'll now need
a couple of things for the user to see a rectangle and the next element will cover this pattern more
in the next section.
But for now what I'm going to do is append a group element for each data point.
Now inside of this group I want to append a text element and a record element to do this.
Also store the enter selection in a variable which all call letter enter rather than merging right away.
Let me first append twice for each element in the enter selection.
I'll also need to merge selections one for rectangles and one for text elements.
Let's do rectangles first since we basically already written this code.
The only thing I need to do is select each rectangle inside of each group in the merged selection before
updating attributes that are specific to the rectangle.
Next I'll use a similar pattern for the text elements.
Once I've selected these elements I'll set the x coordinate to be the midpoint of each bar and the y
coordinate to be a little higher than the top of the bar.
I'll also set the inner text cool.
The last thing I'll do is update some of the styles these fill properties I only want to be set on the
rectangle not the entire group for the text.
I'll do something similar to what we did before by making new characters a bit larger.
Let's take a look here's one phrase here's another suite.
It looks like this is working.
I hope this video was helpful.
Again if the bonus was too challenging Don't worry we'll see this pattern again in the next section.
When you're ready let's learn about some more intermediate D-3.
I'll see you in the next video.